Reading Intro
Reading Messages
Enumerating rooms
Gathering exits
60c6
Gathering Verbs
Gathering Nouns
Object Locations


Dumping it all:
Intro:
"And just what do you think you're doing? Eh? Come on! Answer me", shouts the King of Xaan, angrily. 
"Water. . . Water", you cry, feebly, and gaze up at the King. 
"Stealing my water, were you, dog! You know what I do to thieves, don't you? I lock them in my keep for a while", laughs the King, evilly. 
"How long a while? I'm very thirsty", you croak, touching your cracked lips. 
"I'm not sure", replies the King, "Until you rot, probably", and he orders for you to be cast into prison! 
So begin your adventures on the Island of Xaan. . . 
\nPress<&return&<to start. \n

Message 0: I don't understand 
Message 1: or 
Message 2: how to "$" 
Message 3: what "%" means. 
Message 4: =You pause for a while. . . . =
Message 5: Okay
Message 6: \nWelcome to\n\n"Island of Xaan"\n\nBy: Robert O'Leary\n\nCopyright (c) 1984\n
Message 7: Are you sure you want to $? 
Message 8: I thought you were only kidding! 
Message 9: Bye! 
Message 10: I can't guess what you want to $! 
Message 11: Inventory: \n \nYou are carrying 
Message 12: and wearing 
Message 13: nothing 
Message 14: You can't see 
Message 15: You are already 
Message 16: You are not 
Message 17: You can't do that! 
Message 18: the %! 
Message 19: With a final, almighty tug, the % is freed! 
Message 20: It starts to loosen. 
Message 21: The % seems immovable! 
Message 22: Your hands are full! 
Message 23: A body can only take so much, you know! 
Message 24: anything! 
Message 25: Just type a direction. 
Message 26: holding 
Message 27: wearing 
Message 28: The % is immovable! 
Message 29: Nothing happens. 
Message 30: You can see 
Message 31: The % is nothing special. 
Message 32: You don't possess it! 
Message 33: You need a shovel to $! 
Message 34: The floor is too hard to $. 
Message 35: You can't $ here. 
Message 36: The freezing cold chills you to the bone! 
Message 37: "I'm sick of this adventure", you scream, and in a suicidal frenzy, $ from the pinnacle, to be pulped by the rapidly approaching floor a few moments later! 
Message 38: The intemperate climate has become too much for your weary body. 
Message 39: You seem to have "departed" and gone to the great, big adventure in the sky! 
Message 40: You were devoured by a rather vicious hog in the dark! 
Message 41: You begin to $ the sheer face, slip and fall. As you plummet, you scream! Then there is silence! 
Message 42: The only visible exit is 
Message 43: There are visible exits 
Message 44: north, 
Message 45: south, 
Message 46: east, 
Message 47: west, 
Message 48: northeast, 
Message 49: northwest, 
Message 50: southeast, 
Message 51: southwest, 
Message 52: up, 
Message 53: down, 
Message 54: and 
Message 55: You $ and plunge off the cliff. The sea washes over your shattered hulk. 
Message 56: You $ the tree, do your famous apeman impersonation, and $ down again. Wow! You're so madcap! 
Message 57: \nMessage: \n=Stop it! Leave me alone! I'm on this plain being surrealist at the moment, if you don't mind! =
Message 58: The sturdy % is open. 
Message 59: The sturdy % is closed. 
Message 60: The lamp is off. 
Message 61: The lamp burns with a dazzling intensity. 
Message 62: The lamp is fading. 
Message 63: The lamp needs oil. 
Message 64: Write to Alice! 
Message 65: The % is made from a light, precious alloy and bears the emblem of the Katros dynasty. 
Message 66: The cloak is warm, with many pockets. 
Message 67: Stop playing with your %! It's bad manners! 
Message 68: The % is fashioned from iron, its heavy links encrusted with rust from ages past. 
Message 69: This is lamp %. 
Message 70: The % are a luminous pink colour, and knitted out of a horrible, man made fibre (as opposed to pine, or something). 
Message 71: These are dark %. 
Message 72: The % is a grave digger's. 
Message 73: Mmm! These were trendy in 1971, weren't they? Platforms, and all that? 
Message 74: The open umbrella catches in the wind and blows away. 
Message 75: a 
Message 76: an 
Message 77: some 
Message 78: a pair of 
Message 79: , 
Message 80: The % needle seems to be stuck. 
Message 81: The % glows with a strange aura! The needle points 
Message 82: You find 
Message 83: Where? 
Message 84: I can't guess! 
Message 85: The guard is angry at being disturbed. 
Message 86: The guard is dead. 
Message 87: The guard is asleep. 
Message 88: The guard hears the % and falls deeper into his dreams. 
Message 89: The guard wakes, sees you and in an instant, has drawn his mighty sword. With a single, flashing blow, the razor-edge of the weapon slices through your neck, and your head rolls, lifelessly, along the floor. 
Message 90: The guard shouts at you for disturbing him and leaves, closing the door behind him. 
Message 91: I don't know it. Could you hum it for me? 
Message 92: You sing the latest number by the famous heavy metal group, Uranium Thunderbolt, very loudly. 
Message 93: You sing a beautiful lullaby about skipping through a meadow, gathering flowers. The world seems a better place. 
Message 94: You grip the chain tightly and start to twist it around the guard's neck. As the last breath of life is squeezed from his body, he slumps to the floor. 
Message 95: You need a weapon. 
Message 96: The guard blocks your way. 
Message 97: The ancient chain dissolves into a pile of rust, which mingles with the surrounding dirt and is lost forever! 
Message 98: A guard opens the door and enters the room. 
Message 99: The door is open. 
Message 100: The door is closed. 
Message 101: The door is locked. 
Message 102: The door slams shut behind you! 
Message 103: You $ the %. 
Message 104: The % is out of reach! 
Message 105: It is pitch dark. 
Message 106: The % are embroidered with the arms of Katros. 
Message 107: The % was made in Texas! 
Message 108: Just your size! 
Message 109: The % is rough, ragged and filthy with prison dirt. 
Message 110: Then you stamp the debris out of existence! 
Message 111: The % is small. An inscription reads: "This % has a maximum water capacity of 45. 46 Litres". 
Message 112: You need water. 
Message 113: Fill a container. 
Message 114: The hat is full! 
Message 115: You can't go $. 
Message 116: Ouch! You walked into a pointed stalactite in the dark! 
Message 117: 'Ere, stop poking me, you cheeky %! 
Message 118: It's a bit moth-eaten! 
Message 119: The % is encrusted with rubies! 
Message 120: The % is crafted from polished silver! 
Message 121: This % looks like treasure! 
Message 122: The % rattles when you shake it. 
Message 123: The % is fashioned from clear crystal! 
Message 124: The % is made of 22 carat gold! 
Message 125: They are ragged, but clean. 
Message 126: The % is strung with shining pearls! 
Message 127: The % has a large sapphire! 
Message 128: It's a Persian %! 
Message 129: Mmm! Don't you just love that fresh, carbolic aroma? 
Message 130: You $ long and deep, and unearth a withered corpse, which dissolves into a pile of dust and is scattered by the four winds! 
Message 131: The sand is dry and the hole quickly fills in. 
Message 132: The damp sand is firm and you $ a large pit. 
Message 133: With the dark glasses on, the mist totally obscures your vision. You trip and are concussed as you hit the floor. When you wake, you find yourself at the foot of the hill, your possessions gone! 
Message 134: God helps those who help themselves! 
Message 135: "I recognise 
Message 136: that sacking! 
Message 137: those gloves. They're the King's! 
Message 138: that hair! 
Message 139: those furtive eyes! 
Message 140: that torso! 
Message 141: those bandy legs! 
Message 142: those ankles! 
Message 143: those feet! 
Message 144: those hands! 
Message 145: You be the desperate criminal from the prison cells, yonder! You'll not come aboard my ship", shouts the Captain, and ties your neck into various sailor's knots! 
Message 146: "Hello there, stranger! You'll be wantin' passage on my vessel, will 'e? Drop your treasure down there, for payment, like", 
Message 147: says the Captain. 
Message 148: "Up your poop deck, matey! I want more treasure", 
Message 149: "Shiver me timbers! That'll do nicely, sir", 
Message 150: Press<&return&<for another game. 
Message 151: "Hello! Although I'm a beggar, I'm as choosy as everyone else, okay? So just drop 
Message 152: some food 
Message 153: a bar of soap 
Message 154: a blanket 
Message 155: down there for me", says the beggar. 
Message 156: "Hi! I've had a wash", says the beggar, waving the soap. 
Message 157: An object falls to the floor! 
Message 158: "Because you've been so nice to me, have these mittens", says the beggar, generously. 
Message 159: The building resounds with a low pitched hum as the massive door slowly opens, revealing, as it does so, the dimly lit interior of the tower! 
Message 160: Well done! You have completed "Island of Xaan" and have a maximum score of 250 points! 
Message 161: s! 
Message 162: "Hello there, strangThe tremendous power of the waterfall forces you to your knees and you collapse, breathlessly, to the floor! You glance northwards and make out the hazy shape of a cavern entrance beyond. Then everything goes black. 
Message 163: You are under the crashing waterfall, the open umbrella held safely above you. The white water rushes past, its spray soaking you to the skin. Through the wet haze, to the north, you see the entrance to a dark cavern. 
Message 164: You are in a small, dimly lit prison cell, filled with the stench of death and decay. The smooth, granite walls seem to close in on you, windowless and menacing! To the north looms a huge, iron door. 
Message 165: You are at a dead end in the corridor. The prison cells south of you give way to rough, brick walls, and the ceiling is so low, that you are forced to stoop. 
Message 166: You are in a long, east-west corridor. Either side of you, locked prison cells stretch into the gloom. 
Message 167: You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. 
Message 168: You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! 
Message 169: You are in the guard room of the keep. Light streams in from an open doorway to the north, reaching every corner, showing the filth and squalor that abounds! A scruffy guard is sleeping on a hard, wooden bench set into the north wall. 
Message 170: You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. 
Message 171: You are on the hilltop northwest of the keep. To the north, down the hill, the dark forest spreads across a valley. 
Message 172: You are on the hilltop northeast of the keep. North, down the hill, is the forest. 
Message 173: You are on a cobbled pathway leading southwest to northeast down the hill. 
Message 174: You are on a cobbled pathway which leads southeast to northwest down the hill. 
Message 175: You are in a trench west of the keep. High walls tower either side of you, shrouding you in a deep, cold shadow. 
Message 176: You are in a high walled gully east of the keep. The walls have been worn smooth over the generations and are unsurmountable. 
Message 177: You are in a walled trench west of the keep. A chill breeze reddens your face. 
Message 178: You are in a walled gully east of the keep. A sharp breeze whistles up the gully from the south. 
Message 179: You are on a clifftop southwest of the keep. The strong wind lashes the sea into a turmoil, sending surf up the jagged cliff-face. 
Message 180: You are on a narrow ledge south of the keep, high above the raging sea. The wind blows hard and forces you back against the keep wall, away from the debris thrown up by the wash as it crashes into the sheer cliff. 
Message 181: You are southeast of the keep, on a pinnacle overlooking the sea. The swirling wind howls around you, biting your flesh and freezing your breath! 
Message 182: You are on a plain overlooking a ramshackle graveyard. The wind picks up fine dust which covers you from head to toe, and makes you seem ghostly white. 
Message 183: You are high above a windswept plain, looking down from a rocky precipice. The strong wind rushes past you, through a low archway to the north, and into the musty caverns. 
Message 184: You are on a precipice far above a pebble beach. The blustery wind swirls around you, causing you to teeter precariously on the edge! 
Message 185: You are on a gusty clifftop looking out across the sea. Far below you is a wooden jetty, west of which is moored a sailing ship. 
Message 186: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Message 187: You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. 
Message 188: You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. 
Message 189: You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. 
Message 190: You are at the entrance to a massive forest. East and west of you grows a thorny hedgerow, which forms a path into the forest and then veers right and left, closing in the trees. It is light here, but peering in, all is an eerie blackness! 
Message 191: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Message 192: You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. 
Message 193: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Message 194: You are in the entrance chamber of a large cave system. South of you, the cascading waterfall obscures your view of the forest. 
Message 195: You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. 
Message 196: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Message 197: You are in a large chamber, aware of the cold draught which touches your face from the north. 
Message 198: You are in a blustery cavern passage. A breeze blows in from the south. 
Message 199: You are in a massive hall in the caverns. The sound of dripping water echoes from somewhere distant and emerging from the shadows of the ceiling you see huge, conical stalactites, lime white in the glare of your lamp. 
Message 200: You are at the top of a winding staircase, hewn from the cavern rock. 
Message 201: You are on a winding staircase, carved from the cavern rock. 
Message 202: You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. 
Message 203: You are on a misty flight of steps which connects upper and lower levels of the graveyard. 
Message 204: You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. 
Message 205: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Message 206: You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. 
Message 207: You are on the top of a dangerous scree slope overlooking the forest. You gaze down the hill, to the bottom of the slope where the ground seems firmer. At that moment, a stone moves from under you, and you sprawl across the jagged stones. 
Message 208: You enter the dilapidated house and peer round, cautiously. You hear a loud scraping and then collapse to the floor, as the roof caves in and crushes you. 
Message 209: You enter the room and find yourself in a study. A leather swivel chair faces away from you. Suddenly, the chair revolves and you face the King. "I don't want to be disturbed", he shouts, and grabbing a silver letter opener, stabs you! 
Message 210: You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. 
Message 211: You are outside the Tower of Xaan. Its curved walls are smooth and high, and loom, imposingly, over the island. The west wall is taken up by an arched, wooden door, which is studded with black iron and painted with the King's coat of arms. 
Message 212: You are in the main hall of the tower. Tapestries depicting the King of Xaan's evil reign, hang from the grey, stone walls. To the east is the arched door leading out. 
Message 213: You are in a wide corridor in the tower. A small door lies partially hidden at the bottom of some steps. 
Message 214: You are in the wide corridor, brightly lit from above by a strange light-source you cannot understand. 
Message 215: You are at the end of the wide corridor. A flight of stairs leads to the floor above, and a small door is set in the north wall. 
Message 216: You are in a well furnished sitting room, double glazed, with fashionable bamboo chairs and an electric fire with plastic coal. 
Message 217: You are in a large, bright kitchen. White, enamel tiles cover the walls and concrete steps lead up to a small, painted door. 
Message 218: You are in a utility room. Various complex machines, with names that all end in "omatic", buzz, clank and hum impressively. After gazing at the "Digital washomatic stereo radio drinks machine", you decide it has no adventure significance. 
Message 219: You are in a spacious pantry with wood-panelled walls. A varnished, pine table is located in the centre of the room and occupies much of the floor area. 
Message 220: You are on the lower landing. Stairs lead to the floors above and below. 
Message 221: You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. 
Message 222: You are at the end of the passageway on the first floor. 
Message 223: You are on the upper landing. Steps lead down to the floor below. Further along the landing to the east, you make out the shape of a small door. 
Message 224: You are at the far end of the upper landing outside a small, wooden door. A message on the door reads "&private keep out&". 
Message 225: You are in a disused bedroom, dusty and bare. Your footsteps resonate on the floorboards. To the south there is a cupboard door. 
Message 226: You are in a child's bedroom. The walls are brightly decorated with pictures of teddy bears and a small bed is pushed against the east wall. A red glossy door marked "Toy Cupboard" takes up the south wall. 
Message 227: You are in the master bedroom. It is spacious and well lit. An elegant four poster bed is positioned next to a door in the south wall. 
Message 228: You are in a large, dimly lit, walk-in linen cupboard. A grimy door occupies the north wall. 
Message 229: You are in a small toy cupboard, dimly illuminated by the light which creeps in through gaps under the door to the north. 
Message 230: You are in a modern bathroom. The suite is an exclusive chocolate colour, sunk into the floor, with engraved taps, a thermal towel rail and some rather expensive Pseudo-Victorian soap dishes! 
Message 231: You are at the top of a flight of steps, carved out of the mountain. There is a fresh breeze which seems to enliven you! 
Message 232: You are on a flight of earthy steps, carved out of the mountain. 
Message 233: You are at the bottom of a flight of steps, excavated from the mountainside. 
Message 234: You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. 
Message 235: You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. 
Message 236: You are at the eastern edge of the plateau. High banks of earth stop any further progress. Far to the west you see a pulsing, blue light. 
Message 237: You are at a small grotto, cut into the mountain. A blue, neon sign reading: "<Make Your Wish Here<", points to a small well, constructed of brick, with a brass plate set into the wall. 
Message 238: You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. 
Message 239: You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. 
Message 240: You are on a grassy plateau overshadowed by the mighty Tower of Xaan. There are signs that others have been here before you! 
Message 241: You are at the bottom of a grassy slope. The grass here is weak, yellow and intermingled with bare patches. 
Message 242: You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. 
Message 243: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Message 244: You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! 
Message 245: You are at the end of a dusty road, bounded by drainage ditches. To the north lie the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. 
Message 246: You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. 
Message 247: You are at the start of a long, straight road, surfaced with red dust. The road is bounded by shoulder-high ditches, cut for drainage purposes. 
Message 248: You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. 
Message 249: You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. 
Message 250: You are at the end of the shady lane. The flowers and grasses grow tall, here. A disused track is visible to the north. 
Message 251: You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. 
Message 252: You are on a narrow stairway which leads up to the windy plain, and down to the misty graveyard. 
Message 253: You are in a beggar's hovel: a tiny wooden shack, with rotting floorboards and damp walls. A beggar sits in the corner, crosslegged, and humming tunelessly. 
Message 254: You are on a wooden gangplank to the ship. A red-nosed Captain, with a false leg and a stuffed parrot nailed to his plywood shoulder, swigs a bottle of rum, and peers at you. 
Message 255: You board the vast sailing ship, followed by the Captain. The anchor is lifted, the wind catches in the sails and they billow out. Slowly, the ship leaves the Island of Xaan! You have escaped! You are free at last! 
Message 256: You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. 
Message 257: You are at the bottom of a winding staircase looking out onto a pebble beach. 
Message 258: You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. 
Message 259: You are on a stony scree slope. The ground is firm and safe here, but further up the hill there are loose rocks and hidden pitfalls. Below you, the dark forest covers the valley. 
Message 260: You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. 
Message 261: You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. 
Message 262: You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. 
Message 263: You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. 
Message 264: 

Room 52: You are in a small, dimly lit prison cell, filled with the stench of death and decay. The smooth, granite walls seem to close in on you, windowless and menacing! To the north looms a huge, iron door. 
Exits:
 north to 54 (You are in a long, east-west corridor. Either side of you, locked prison cells stretch into the gloom. )(blocked)

Room 53: You are at a dead end in the corridor. The prison cells south of you give way to rough, brick walls, and the ceiling is so low, that you are forced to stoop. 
Exits:
 west to 54 (You are in a long, east-west corridor. Either side of you, locked prison cells stretch into the gloom. )

Room 54: You are in a long, east-west corridor. Either side of you, locked prison cells stretch into the gloom. 
Exits:
 east to 53 (You are at a dead end in the corridor. The prison cells south of you give way to rough, brick walls, and the ceiling is so low, that you are forced to stoop. )
 west to 55 (You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. )

Room 55: You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. 
Exits:
 north to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 east to 54 (You are in a long, east-west corridor. Either side of you, locked prison cells stretch into the gloom. )

Room 56: You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! 
Exits:
 north to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 south to 55 (You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. )
 east to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 west to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northeast to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northwest to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southeast to 55 (You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. )
 southwest to 55 (You are at the western end of the long corridor. South of you are the last of the locked prison cells. A narrow archway is just visible amongst the shadows of the north wall. )

Room 57: You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! 
Exits:
 north to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 south to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 east to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 west to 58 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northeast to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northwest to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southeast to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southwest to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )

Room 58: You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! 
Exits:
 north to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 south to 57 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 east to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 west to 57 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northeast to 60 (You are in the guard room of the keep. Light streams in from an open doorway to the north, reaching every corner, showing the filth and squalor that abounds! A scruffy guard is sleeping on a hard, wooden bench set into the north wall. )
 northwest to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southeast to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southwest to 57 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )

Room 59: You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! 
Exits:
 north to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 south to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 east to 57 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 west to 59 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northeast to 57 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 northwest to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southeast to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )
 southwest to 56 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )

Room 60: You are in the guard room of the keep. Light streams in from an open doorway to the north, reaching every corner, showing the filth and squalor that abounds! A scruffy guard is sleeping on a hard, wooden bench set into the north wall. 
Exits:
 north to 61 (You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. )
 southeast to 58 (You are in a twisting maze of echoing corridors. Each sound you make seems amplified as it bounces between the cold, rock walls! )

Room 61: You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. 
Exits:
 south to 60 (You are in the guard room of the keep. Light streams in from an open doorway to the north, reaching every corner, showing the filth and squalor that abounds! A scruffy guard is sleeping on a hard, wooden bench set into the north wall. )
 east to 63 (You are on the hilltop northeast of the keep. North, down the hill, is the forest. )
 west to 62 (You are on the hilltop northwest of the keep. To the north, down the hill, the dark forest spreads across a valley. )
 down to 148 (You are on the top of a dangerous scree slope overlooking the forest. You gaze down the hill, to the bottom of the slope where the ground seems firmer. At that moment, a stone moves from under you, and you sprawl across the jagged stones. )

Room 62: You are on the hilltop northwest of the keep. To the north, down the hill, the dark forest spreads across a valley. 
Exits:
 north to 64 (You are on a cobbled pathway leading southwest to northeast down the hill. )
 south to 66 (You are in a trench west of the keep. High walls tower either side of you, shrouding you in a deep, cold shadow. )
 east to 61 (You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. )

Room 63: You are on the hilltop northeast of the keep. North, down the hill, is the forest. 
Exits:
 north to 65 (You are on a cobbled pathway which leads southeast to northwest down the hill. )
 south to 67 (You are in a high walled gully east of the keep. The walls have been worn smooth over the generations and are unsurmountable. )
 west to 61 (You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. )

Room 64: You are on a cobbled pathway leading southwest to northeast down the hill. 
Exits:
 northeast to 207 (You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. )
 southwest to 62 (You are on the hilltop northwest of the keep. To the north, down the hill, the dark forest spreads across a valley. )

Room 65: You are on a cobbled pathway which leads southeast to northwest down the hill. 
Exits:
 northwest to 207 (You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. )
 southeast to 63 (You are on the hilltop northeast of the keep. North, down the hill, is the forest. )

Room 66: You are in a trench west of the keep. High walls tower either side of you, shrouding you in a deep, cold shadow. 
Exits:
 north to 62 (You are on the hilltop northwest of the keep. To the north, down the hill, the dark forest spreads across a valley. )
 south to 68 (You are in a walled trench west of the keep. A chill breeze reddens your face. )

Room 67: You are in a high walled gully east of the keep. The walls have been worn smooth over the generations and are unsurmountable. 
Exits:
 north to 63 (You are on the hilltop northeast of the keep. North, down the hill, is the forest. )
 south to 69 (You are in a walled gully east of the keep. A sharp breeze whistles up the gully from the south. )

Room 68: You are in a walled trench west of the keep. A chill breeze reddens your face. 
Exits:
 north to 66 (You are in a trench west of the keep. High walls tower either side of you, shrouding you in a deep, cold shadow. )
 south to 70 (You are on a clifftop southwest of the keep. The strong wind lashes the sea into a turmoil, sending surf up the jagged cliff-face. )

Room 69: You are in a walled gully east of the keep. A sharp breeze whistles up the gully from the south. 
Exits:
 north to 67 (You are in a high walled gully east of the keep. The walls have been worn smooth over the generations and are unsurmountable. )
 south to 72 (You are southeast of the keep, on a pinnacle overlooking the sea. The swirling wind howls around you, biting your flesh and freezing your breath! )

Room 70: You are on a clifftop southwest of the keep. The strong wind lashes the sea into a turmoil, sending surf up the jagged cliff-face. 
Exits:
 north to 68 (You are in a walled trench west of the keep. A chill breeze reddens your face. )
 east to 71 (You are on a narrow ledge south of the keep, high above the raging sea. The wind blows hard and forces you back against the keep wall, away from the debris thrown up by the wash as it crashes into the sheer cliff. )

Room 71: You are on a narrow ledge south of the keep, high above the raging sea. The wind blows hard and forces you back against the keep wall, away from the debris thrown up by the wash as it crashes into the sheer cliff. 
Exits:
 east to 72 (You are southeast of the keep, on a pinnacle overlooking the sea. The swirling wind howls around you, biting your flesh and freezing your breath! )
 west to 70 (You are on a clifftop southwest of the keep. The strong wind lashes the sea into a turmoil, sending surf up the jagged cliff-face. )

Room 72: You are southeast of the keep, on a pinnacle overlooking the sea. The swirling wind howls around you, biting your flesh and freezing your breath! 
Exits:
 north to 69 (You are in a walled gully east of the keep. A sharp breeze whistles up the gully from the south. )
 west to 71 (You are on a narrow ledge south of the keep, high above the raging sea. The wind blows hard and forces you back against the keep wall, away from the debris thrown up by the wash as it crashes into the sheer cliff. )

Room 73: You are on a plain overlooking a ramshackle graveyard. The wind picks up fine dust which covers you from head to toe, and makes you seem ghostly white. 
Exits:
 north to 146 (You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. )
 west to 147 (You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. )
 northeast to 213 (You are on a narrow stairway which leads up to the windy plain, and down to the misty graveyard. )
 northwest to 145 (You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. )

Room 74: You are high above a windswept plain, looking down from a rocky precipice. The strong wind rushes past you, through a low archway to the north, and into the musty caverns. 
Exits:
 north to 127 (You are in a blustery cavern passage. A breeze blows in from the south. )

Room 75: You are on a precipice far above a pebble beach. The blustery wind swirls around you, causing you to teeter precariously on the edge! 
Exits:
 south to 126 (You are in a large chamber, aware of the cold draught which touches your face from the north. )

Room 76: You are on a gusty clifftop looking out across the sea. Far below you is a wooden jetty, west of which is moored a sailing ship. 
Exits:
 south to 175 (You are at the top of a flight of steps, carved out of the mountain. There is a fresh breeze which seems to enliven you! )

Room 77: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 78 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northeast to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 78: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 west to 77 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northeast to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northwest to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 79: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 80 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 222 (You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. )
 northeast to 81 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northwest to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 80: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 81 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 79 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northwest to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 81: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 84 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 south to 80 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northwest to 144 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southwest to 79 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 82: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 141 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 east to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 northeast to 142 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northwest to 140 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southwest to 78 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 83: You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. 
Exits:
 north to 142 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 east to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 west to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northeast to 143 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northwest to 141 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southeast to 222 (You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. )

Room 84: You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 81 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 144 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southwest to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 85: You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 140 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 86: You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. 
Exits:
 north to 184 (You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. )
 south to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 87 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 west to 98 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 southeast to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 97 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )

Room 87: You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. 
Exits:
 south to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 88 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 west to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )
 southeast to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 88: You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. 
Exits:
 south to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )
 west to 87 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 southeast to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 89: You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. 
Exits:
 south to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 94 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 west to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )
 southeast to 91 (You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. )
 southwest to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 90: You are at the entrance to a massive forest. East and west of you grows a thorny hedgerow, which forms a path into the forest and then veers right and left, closing in the trees. It is light here, but peering in, all is an eerie blackness! 
Exits:
 north to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 south to 207 (You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. )

Room 91: You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. 
Exits:
 north to 94 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 147 (You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. )
 west to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 89 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )

Room 92: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 north to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 93: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 north to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 94: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 south to 91 (You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. )
 west to 89 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 southwest to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 95: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 north to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 96: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 north to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 97: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 north to 98 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )

Room 98: You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. 
Exits:
 south to 97 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )
 southeast to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 99: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )
 south to 96 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 97 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 northeast to 87 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 northwest to 98 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 southeast to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 100: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 87 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 south to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 88 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 northwest to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )
 southeast to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 96 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )

Room 101: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 88 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 south to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )
 northwest to 87 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 southeast to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 102: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )
 south to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 89 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 northwest to 88 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 southeast to 92 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 southwest to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 103: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 89 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 south to 92 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 91 (You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. )
 west to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 94 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 northwest to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )
 southwest to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 104: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 south to 93 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 92 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 west to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 105: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 south to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northeast to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southeast to 93 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 southwest to 95 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )

Room 106: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 100 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 south to 95 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 east to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 west to 96 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 northeast to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 99 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southeast to 107 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 107: You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. 
Exits:
 north to 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 south to 90 (You are at the entrance to a massive forest. East and west of you grows a thorny hedgerow, which forms a path into the forest and then veers right and left, closing in the trees. It is light here, but peering in, all is an eerie blackness! )
 east to 93 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 west to 95 (You are at the edge of the forest, your way out blocked by a thick hedge. )
 northeast to 104 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 northwest to 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 108: You are in the entrance chamber of a large cave system. South of you, the cascading waterfall obscures your view of the forest. 
Exits:
 south to 152 ("Hello there, strangThe tremendous power of the waterfall forces you to your knees and you collapse, breathlessly, to the floor! You glance northwards and make out the hazy shape of a cavern entrance beyond. Then everything goes black. )
 northeast to 128 (You are in a massive hall in the caverns. The sound of dripping water echoes from somewhere distant and emerging from the shadows of the ceiling you see huge, conical stalactites, lime white in the glare of your lamp. )

Room 109: You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. 
Exits:
 southwest to 118 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 110: You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. 
Exits:
 southeast to 126 (You are in a large chamber, aware of the cold draught which touches your face from the north. )

Room 111: You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. 
Exits:
 northeast to 112 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 112: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 south to 111 (You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. )
 west to 113 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southeast to 122 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 113: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 114 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 east to 112 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 114: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 south to 113 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 east to 115 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 115: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 west to 114 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 northeast to 129 (You are at the top of a winding staircase, hewn from the cavern rock. )

Room 116: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 south to 117 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 east to 118 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 117: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 116 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southeast to 128 (You are in a massive hall in the caverns. The sound of dripping water echoes from somewhere distant and emerging from the shadows of the ceiling you see huge, conical stalactites, lime white in the glare of your lamp. )
 southwest to 122 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 118: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 109 (You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. )
 east to 120 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 west to 116 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 119: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 northeast to 120 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southwest to 128 (You are in a massive hall in the caverns. The sound of dripping water echoes from somewhere distant and emerging from the shadows of the ceiling you see huge, conical stalactites, lime white in the glare of your lamp. )

Room 120: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 south to 127 (You are in a blustery cavern passage. A breeze blows in from the south. )
 east to 121 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 west to 118 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southwest to 119 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 121: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 west to 120 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southeast to 123 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 122: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 117 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 northwest to 112 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 123: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 121 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 east to 124 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 west to 127 (You are in a blustery cavern passage. A breeze blows in from the south. )

Room 124: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 west to 123 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 southeast to 125 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 125: You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. 
Exits:
 north to 126 (You are in a large chamber, aware of the cold draught which touches your face from the north. )
 northwest to 124 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 126: You are in a large chamber, aware of the cold draught which touches your face from the north. 
Exits:
 north to 75 (You are on a precipice far above a pebble beach. The blustery wind swirls around you, causing you to teeter precariously on the edge! )
 south to 125 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 northwest to 110 (You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. )

Room 127: You are in a blustery cavern passage. A breeze blows in from the south. 
Exits:
 south to 74 (You are high above a windswept plain, looking down from a rocky precipice. The strong wind rushes past you, through a low archway to the north, and into the musty caverns. )
 east to 123 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 northwest to 120 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 128: You are in a massive hall in the caverns. The sound of dripping water echoes from somewhere distant and emerging from the shadows of the ceiling you see huge, conical stalactites, lime white in the glare of your lamp. 
Exits:
 south to 108 (You are in the entrance chamber of a large cave system. South of you, the cascading waterfall obscures your view of the forest. )
 northeast to 119 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 northwest to 117 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )

Room 129: You are at the top of a winding staircase, hewn from the cavern rock. 
Exits:
 southwest to 115 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
 down to 130 (You are on a winding staircase, carved from the cavern rock. )

Room 130: You are on a winding staircase, carved from the cavern rock. 
Exits:
 up to 129 (You are at the top of a winding staircase, hewn from the cavern rock. )
 down to 221 (You are at the bottom of a winding staircase looking out onto a pebble beach. )

Room 131: You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. 
Exits:
 south to 132 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )
 west to 213 (You are on a narrow stairway which leads up to the windy plain, and down to the misty graveyard. )

Room 132: You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. 
Exits:
 north to 131 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )
 south to 133 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )

Room 133: You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. 
Exits:
 north to 132 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )
 west to 135 (You are on a misty flight of steps which connects upper and lower levels of the graveyard. )

Room 134: You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. 
Exits:
 northeast to 135 (You are on a misty flight of steps which connects upper and lower levels of the graveyard. )
 southwest to 212 (You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. )

Room 135: You are on a misty flight of steps which connects upper and lower levels of the graveyard. 
Exits:
 up to 133 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )
 down to 134 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )

Room 136: You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. 
Exits:
 north to 85 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 south to 77 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 east to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 west to 215 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )
 northeast to 140 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southeast to 78 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 137: You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. 
Exits:
 north to 140 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 south to 78 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 east to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 northeast to 141 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northwest to 85 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 southwest to 77 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 138: You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. 
Exits:
 north to 143 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 south to 222 (You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. )
 east to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 west to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 northeast to 144 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northwest to 142 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southeast to 79 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 139: You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. 
Exits:
 north to 144 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 south to 79 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 east to 81 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 northeast to 84 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 northwest to 143 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 southeast to 80 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 southwest to 222 (You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. )

Room 140: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 141 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 west to 85 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 southwest to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 141: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 east to 142 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 west to 140 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 southwest to 137 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 142: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 east to 143 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 west to 141 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 southwest to 82 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 143: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 144 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 west to 142 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 southwest to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 144: You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. 
Exits:
 north to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 south to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 84 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )
 west to 143 (You are on a sandy beach by the rough sea. The sand is damp and you leave deep footprints. )
 northeast to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 northwest to 151 (You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. )
 southeast to 81 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 southwest to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )

Room 145: You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. 
Exits:
 south to 147 (You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. )
 east to 146 (You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. )
 southeast to 73 (You are on a plain overlooking a ramshackle graveyard. The wind picks up fine dust which covers you from head to toe, and makes you seem ghostly white. )

Room 146: You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. 
Exits:
 south to 73 (You are on a plain overlooking a ramshackle graveyard. The wind picks up fine dust which covers you from head to toe, and makes you seem ghostly white. )
 east to 213 (You are on a narrow stairway which leads up to the windy plain, and down to the misty graveyard. )
 west to 145 (You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. )
 southwest to 147 (You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. )

Room 147: You are on a plain: wide, flat and windswept. To the west is a narrow crawlway leading into the dark forest. The gales uproot dry, brittle plants and blow them across the land. 
Exits:
 north to 145 (You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. )
 east to 73 (You are on a plain overlooking a ramshackle graveyard. The wind picks up fine dust which covers you from head to toe, and makes you seem ghostly white. )
 west to 91 (You are at the forest's edge. In the hedgerow forming the eastern boundary is a hole, just wide enough for you to squeeze through. )
 northeast to 146 (You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. )

Room 148: You are on the top of a dangerous scree slope overlooking the forest. You gaze down the hill, to the bottom of the slope where the ground seems firmer. At that moment, a stone moves from under you, and you sprawl across the jagged stones. 
Exits:
 up to 61 (You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. )

Room 149: You enter the dilapidated house and peer round, cautiously. You hear a loud scraping and then collapse to the floor, as the roof caves in and crushes you. 
Exits:
 south to 205 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )

Room 150: You enter the room and find yourself in a study. A leather swivel chair faces away from you. Suddenly, the chair revolves and you face the King. "I don't want to be disturbed", he shouts, and grabbing a silver letter opener, stabs you! 
Exits:
 north to 168 (You are at the far end of the upper landing outside a small, wooden door. A message on the door reads "&private keep out&". )

Room 151: You plunge into the freezing sea. A gigantic wave floods over you, pulling you under. The last thing you feel is the sting of salt water in your eyes. 
Exits:
 south to 85 (You are on a pebble beach, under a high cliff, next to the rough sea. The wind is strong. )

Room 152: "Hello there, strangThe tremendous power of the waterfall forces you to your knees and you collapse, breathlessly, to the floor! You glance northwards and make out the hazy shape of a cavern entrance beyond. Then everything goes black. 
Exits:
 north to 108 (You are in the entrance chamber of a large cave system. South of you, the cascading waterfall obscures your view of the forest. )
 south to 220 (You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. )

Room 153: You are outside the Tower of Xaan. Its curved walls are smooth and high, and loom, imposingly, over the island. The west wall is taken up by an arched, wooden door, which is studded with black iron and painted with the King's coat of arms. 
Exits:
 west to 154 (You are in the main hall of the tower. Tapestries depicting the King of Xaan's evil reign, hang from the grey, stone walls. To the east is the arched door leading out. )(blocked)
 northeast to 175 (You are at the top of a flight of steps, carved out of the mountain. There is a fresh breeze which seems to enliven you! )

Room 154: You are in the main hall of the tower. Tapestries depicting the King of Xaan's evil reign, hang from the grey, stone walls. To the east is the arched door leading out. 
Exits:
 east to 153 (You are outside the Tower of Xaan. Its curved walls are smooth and high, and loom, imposingly, over the island. The west wall is taken up by an arched, wooden door, which is studded with black iron and painted with the King's coat of arms. )(blocked)
 west to 155 (You are in a wide corridor in the tower. A small door lies partially hidden at the bottom of some steps. )

Room 155: You are in a wide corridor in the tower. A small door lies partially hidden at the bottom of some steps. 
Exits:
 east to 154 (You are in the main hall of the tower. Tapestries depicting the King of Xaan's evil reign, hang from the grey, stone walls. To the east is the arched door leading out. )
 west to 156 (You are in the wide corridor, brightly lit from above by a strange light-source you cannot understand. )
 down to 159 (You are in a large, bright kitchen. White, enamel tiles cover the walls and concrete steps lead up to a small, painted door. )(blocked)

Room 156: You are in the wide corridor, brightly lit from above by a strange light-source you cannot understand. 
Exits:
 east to 155 (You are in a wide corridor in the tower. A small door lies partially hidden at the bottom of some steps. )
 west to 157 (You are at the end of the wide corridor. A flight of stairs leads to the floor above, and a small door is set in the north wall. )

Room 157: You are at the end of the wide corridor. A flight of stairs leads to the floor above, and a small door is set in the north wall. 
Exits:
 north to 158 (You are in a well furnished sitting room, double glazed, with fashionable bamboo chairs and an electric fire with plastic coal. )(blocked)
 east to 156 (You are in the wide corridor, brightly lit from above by a strange light-source you cannot understand. )
 up to 162 (You are on the lower landing. Stairs lead to the floors above and below. )

Room 158: You are in a well furnished sitting room, double glazed, with fashionable bamboo chairs and an electric fire with plastic coal. 
Exits:
 south to 157 (You are at the end of the wide corridor. A flight of stairs leads to the floor above, and a small door is set in the north wall. )(blocked)

Room 159: You are in a large, bright kitchen. White, enamel tiles cover the walls and concrete steps lead up to a small, painted door. 
Exits:
 northeast to 161 (You are in a spacious pantry with wood-panelled walls. A varnished, pine table is located in the centre of the room and occupies much of the floor area. )
 northwest to 160 (You are in a utility room. Various complex machines, with names that all end in "omatic", buzz, clank and hum impressively. After gazing at the "Digital washomatic stereo radio drinks machine", you decide it has no adventure significance. )
 up to 155 (You are in a wide corridor in the tower. A small door lies partially hidden at the bottom of some steps. )(blocked)

Room 160: You are in a utility room. Various complex machines, with names that all end in "omatic", buzz, clank and hum impressively. After gazing at the "Digital washomatic stereo radio drinks machine", you decide it has no adventure significance. 
Exits:
 southeast to 159 (You are in a large, bright kitchen. White, enamel tiles cover the walls and concrete steps lead up to a small, painted door. )

Room 161: You are in a spacious pantry with wood-panelled walls. A varnished, pine table is located in the centre of the room and occupies much of the floor area. 
Exits:
 southwest to 159 (You are in a large, bright kitchen. White, enamel tiles cover the walls and concrete steps lead up to a small, painted door. )

Room 162: You are on the lower landing. Stairs lead to the floors above and below. 
Exits:
 east to 163 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )
 down to 157 (You are at the end of the wide corridor. A flight of stairs leads to the floor above, and a small door is set in the north wall. )
 up to 167 (You are on the upper landing. Steps lead down to the floor below. Further along the landing to the east, you make out the shape of a small door. )

Room 163: You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. 
Exits:
 east to 164 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )
 west to 162 (You are on the lower landing. Stairs lead to the floors above and below. )

Room 164: You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. 
Exits:
 south to 169 (You are in a disused bedroom, dusty and bare. Your footsteps resonate on the floorboards. To the south there is a cupboard door. )
 east to 165 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )
 west to 163 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )

Room 165: You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. 
Exits:
 south to 170 (You are in a child's bedroom. The walls are brightly decorated with pictures of teddy bears and a small bed is pushed against the east wall. A red glossy door marked "Toy Cupboard" takes up the south wall. )
 east to 166 (You are at the end of the passageway on the first floor. )
 west to 164 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )

Room 166: You are at the end of the passageway on the first floor. 
Exits:
 south to 171 (You are in the master bedroom. It is spacious and well lit. An elegant four poster bed is positioned next to a door in the south wall. )
 west to 165 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )

Room 167: You are on the upper landing. Steps lead down to the floor below. Further along the landing to the east, you make out the shape of a small door. 
Exits:
 east to 168 (You are at the far end of the upper landing outside a small, wooden door. A message on the door reads "&private keep out&". )
 down to 162 (You are on the lower landing. Stairs lead to the floors above and below. )

Room 168: You are at the far end of the upper landing outside a small, wooden door. A message on the door reads "&private keep out&". 
Exits:
 south to 150 (You enter the room and find yourself in a study. A leather swivel chair faces away from you. Suddenly, the chair revolves and you face the King. "I don't want to be disturbed", he shouts, and grabbing a silver letter opener, stabs you! )(blocked)
 west to 167 (You are on the upper landing. Steps lead down to the floor below. Further along the landing to the east, you make out the shape of a small door. )

Room 169: You are in a disused bedroom, dusty and bare. Your footsteps resonate on the floorboards. To the south there is a cupboard door. 
Exits:
 north to 164 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )
 south to 172 (You are in a large, dimly lit, walk-in linen cupboard. A grimy door occupies the north wall. )(blocked)

Room 170: You are in a child's bedroom. The walls are brightly decorated with pictures of teddy bears and a small bed is pushed against the east wall. A red glossy door marked "Toy Cupboard" takes up the south wall. 
Exits:
 north to 165 (You are in a passageway on the first floor. The south wall has exits to various rooms. )
 south to 173 (You are in a small toy cupboard, dimly illuminated by the light which creeps in through gaps under the door to the north. )(blocked)

Room 171: You are in the master bedroom. It is spacious and well lit. An elegant four poster bed is positioned next to a door in the south wall. 
Exits:
 north to 166 (You are at the end of the passageway on the first floor. )
 south to 174 (You are in a modern bathroom. The suite is an exclusive chocolate colour, sunk into the floor, with engraved taps, a thermal towel rail and some rather expensive Pseudo-Victorian soap dishes! )(blocked)

Room 172: You are in a large, dimly lit, walk-in linen cupboard. A grimy door occupies the north wall. 
Exits:
 north to 169 (You are in a disused bedroom, dusty and bare. Your footsteps resonate on the floorboards. To the south there is a cupboard door. )(blocked)

Room 173: You are in a small toy cupboard, dimly illuminated by the light which creeps in through gaps under the door to the north. 
Exits:
 north to 170 (You are in a child's bedroom. The walls are brightly decorated with pictures of teddy bears and a small bed is pushed against the east wall. A red glossy door marked "Toy Cupboard" takes up the south wall. )(blocked)

Room 174: You are in a modern bathroom. The suite is an exclusive chocolate colour, sunk into the floor, with engraved taps, a thermal towel rail and some rather expensive Pseudo-Victorian soap dishes! 
Exits:
 north to 171 (You are in the master bedroom. It is spacious and well lit. An elegant four poster bed is positioned next to a door in the south wall. )(blocked)

Room 175: You are at the top of a flight of steps, carved out of the mountain. There is a fresh breeze which seems to enliven you! 
Exits:
 north to 76 (You are on a gusty clifftop looking out across the sea. Far below you is a wooden jetty, west of which is moored a sailing ship. )
 southwest to 153 (You are outside the Tower of Xaan. Its curved walls are smooth and high, and loom, imposingly, over the island. The west wall is taken up by an arched, wooden door, which is studded with black iron and painted with the King's coat of arms. )
 down to 176 (You are on a flight of earthy steps, carved out of the mountain. )

Room 176: You are on a flight of earthy steps, carved out of the mountain. 
Exits:
 up to 175 (You are at the top of a flight of steps, carved out of the mountain. There is a fresh breeze which seems to enliven you! )
 down to 177 (You are at the bottom of a flight of steps, excavated from the mountainside. )

Room 177: You are at the bottom of a flight of steps, excavated from the mountainside. 
Exits:
 east to 178 (You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. )
 up to 176 (You are on a flight of earthy steps, carved out of the mountain. )

Room 178: You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. 
Exits:
 west to 177 (You are at the bottom of a flight of steps, excavated from the mountainside. )
 southeast to 179 (You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. )

Room 179: You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. 
Exits:
 south to 180 (You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. )
 northwest to 178 (You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. )

Room 180: You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. 
Exits:
 north to 179 (You are on a spiral pathway on the side of the mountain. )
 south to 183 (You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. )
 east to 182 (You are at the eastern edge of the plateau. High banks of earth stop any further progress. Far to the west you see a pulsing, blue light. )
 west to 181 (You are at a small grotto, cut into the mountain. A blue, neon sign reading: "<Make Your Wish Here<", points to a small well, constructed of brick, with a brass plate set into the wall. )

Room 181: You are at a small grotto, cut into the mountain. A blue, neon sign reading: "<Make Your Wish Here<", points to a small well, constructed of brick, with a brass plate set into the wall. 
Exits:
 east to 180 (You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. )

Room 182: You are at the eastern edge of the plateau. High banks of earth stop any further progress. Far to the west you see a pulsing, blue light. 
Exits:
 west to 180 (You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. )

Room 183: You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. 
Exits:
 north to 180 (You are at a plateau half way up the mountain. A peculiar, blue light pulses to the west. )
 west to 185 (You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. )
 southeast to 184 (You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. )

Room 184: You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. 
Exits:
 south to 86 (You at the bottom of a tall, stark mountain. To the north, there is a crevice in the side of the mountain, large enough to enter. )
 northwest to 183 (You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. )

Room 185: You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. 
Exits:
 northeast to 183 (You are in a barren mountain pass, squeezed between two banks of earth and rock. The ground is hard and uneven. )
 southwest to 186 (You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. )

Room 186: You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. 
Exits:
 south to 188 (You are at the bottom of a grassy slope. The grass here is weak, yellow and intermingled with bare patches. )
 west to 187 (You are on a grassy plateau overshadowed by the mighty Tower of Xaan. There are signs that others have been here before you! )
 northeast to 185 (You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. )

Room 187: You are on a grassy plateau overshadowed by the mighty Tower of Xaan. There are signs that others have been here before you! 
Exits:
 east to 186 (You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. )

Room 188: You are at the bottom of a grassy slope. The grass here is weak, yellow and intermingled with bare patches. 
Exits:
 north to 186 (You are on a grassy slope leading down the mountain. The vegetation is rich and green. )
 south to 189 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )

Room 189: You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. 
Exits:
 north to 188 (You are at the bottom of a grassy slope. The grass here is weak, yellow and intermingled with bare patches. )
 south to 197 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 west to 190 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 southwest to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 190: You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. 
Exits:
 south to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 east to 189 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 southeast to 197 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 191: You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. 
Exits:
 north to 199 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 south to 203 (You are at the end of a dusty road, bounded by drainage ditches. To the north lie the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. )
 west to 192 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 northwest to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 192: You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. 
Exits:
 north to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 east to 191 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 west to 193 (You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. )
 northeast to 199 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northwest to 194 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 193: You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. 
Exits:
 north to 194 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 east to 192 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 west to 214 (You are in a beggar's hovel: a tiny wooden shack, with rotting floorboards and damp walls. A beggar sits in the corner, crosslegged, and humming tunelessly. )(blocked)

Room 194: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 north to 195 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 south to 193 (You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. )
 east to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northeast to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 southeast to 192 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )

Room 195: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 south to 194 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 east to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 southeast to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 196: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 north to 190 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 south to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 east to 197 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 west to 195 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northeast to 189 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 southeast to 199 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 southwest to 194 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 197: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 north to 189 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 south to 199 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 west to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northwest to 190 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 southwest to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )

Room 198: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 north to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 south to 192 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 east to 199 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 west to 194 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northeast to 197 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northwest to 195 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 southeast to 191 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 southwest to 193 (You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. )

Room 199: You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. 
Exits:
 north to 197 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 south to 191 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 west to 198 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 northwest to 196 (You are in the midst of the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The ground is hard and rocky, and no vegetation grows. )
 southwest to 192 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )

Room 200: You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! 
Exits:
 east to 201 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )
 up to 203 (You are at the end of a dusty road, bounded by drainage ditches. To the north lie the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. )

Room 201: You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! 
Exits:
 east to 202 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )
 west to 200 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )
 up to 204 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )

Room 202: You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! 
Exits:
 west to 201 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )
 up to 205 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )

Room 203: You are at the end of a dusty road, bounded by drainage ditches. To the north lie the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. 
Exits:
 north to 191 (You are on the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. The lands are sparsely vegetated and stony. )
 east to 204 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )
 down to 200 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )

Room 204: You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. 
Exits:
 north to 149 (You enter the dilapidated house and peer round, cautiously. You hear a loud scraping and then collapse to the floor, as the roof caves in and crushes you. )
 east to 205 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )
 west to 203 (You are at the end of a dusty road, bounded by drainage ditches. To the north lie the flat lands beneath the Tower of Xaan. )
 down to 201 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )

Room 205: You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. 
Exits:
 north to 149 (You enter the dilapidated house and peer round, cautiously. You hear a loud scraping and then collapse to the floor, as the roof caves in and crushes you. )
 east to 206 (You are at the start of a long, straight road, surfaced with red dust. The road is bounded by shoulder-high ditches, cut for drainage purposes. )
 west to 204 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )
 down to 202 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )

Room 206: You are at the start of a long, straight road, surfaced with red dust. The road is bounded by shoulder-high ditches, cut for drainage purposes. 
Exits:
 east to 207 (You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. )
 west to 205 (You are on a long, dusty road. Overgrown paths lead north, to a row of condemned houses. Their woodwork is rotting, their paintwork chipped and flaking, and their windows smashed or boarded. )

Room 207: You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. 
Exits:
 north to 90 (You are at the entrance to a massive forest. East and west of you grows a thorny hedgerow, which forms a path into the forest and then veers right and left, closing in the trees. It is light here, but peering in, all is an eerie blackness! )
 east to 208 (You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. )
 west to 206 (You are at the start of a long, straight road, surfaced with red dust. The road is bounded by shoulder-high ditches, cut for drainage purposes. )
 southeast to 65 (You are on a cobbled pathway which leads southeast to northwest down the hill. )
 southwest to 64 (You are on a cobbled pathway leading southwest to northeast down the hill. )
 up to 223 (You are on a stony scree slope. The ground is firm and safe here, but further up the hill there are loose rocks and hidden pitfalls. Below you, the dark forest covers the valley. )

Room 208: You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. 
Exits:
 east to 209 (You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. )
 west to 207 (You are at the bottom of the hill. High above and south, the keep towers over you, seeming to watch your every move! The dark forest is to the north, while roads stretch east and west. )

Room 209: You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. 
Exits:
 east to 210 (You are at the end of the shady lane. The flowers and grasses grow tall, here. A disused track is visible to the north. )
 west to 208 (You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. )

Room 210: You are at the end of the shady lane. The flowers and grasses grow tall, here. A disused track is visible to the north. 
Exits:
 north to 211 (You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. )
 west to 209 (You are in a narrow, shady lane. Wild flowers and grasses flourish between bare cart-tracks. )

Room 211: You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. 
Exits:
 south to 210 (You are at the end of the shady lane. The flowers and grasses grow tall, here. A disused track is visible to the north. )
 northeast to 212 (You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. )

Room 212: You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. 
Exits:
 south to 211 (You are on a disused track. The undergrowth is thick and full of thorny plants and nettles, guaranteed to rip and sting. )
 east to 134 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )

Room 213: You are on a narrow stairway which leads up to the windy plain, and down to the misty graveyard. 
Exits:
 up to 146 (You are on a wide, flat plain. The wind blows strongly, kicking up the dust into choking clouds. )
 down to 131 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )

Room 214: You are in a beggar's hovel: a tiny wooden shack, with rotting floorboards and damp walls. A beggar sits in the corner, crosslegged, and humming tunelessly. 
Exits:
 east to 193 (You are in the sparsely vegetated flat lands. To the north, the Tower of Xaan reaches into the sky. West of you is a small, wooden shack, its roof broken and its door hanging loosely from rusty hinges. A strange humming emanates from within. )(blocked)

Room 215: You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. 
Exits:
 east to 136 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 northwest to 216 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )

Room 216: You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. 
Exits:
 east to 215 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )
 northwest to 217 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )

Room 217: You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. 
Exits:
 east to 216 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )
 west to 218 (You are on a wooden gangplank to the ship. A red-nosed Captain, with a false leg and a stuffed parrot nailed to his plywood shoulder, swigs a bottle of rum, and peers at you. )

Room 218: You are on a wooden gangplank to the ship. A red-nosed Captain, with a false leg and a stuffed parrot nailed to his plywood shoulder, swigs a bottle of rum, and peers at you. 
Exits:
 east to 217 (You are on a long wooden jetty, either side of which, are white, steel railings. The jetty stretches out over the sea. )
 west to 219 (You board the vast sailing ship, followed by the Captain. The anchor is lifted, the wind catches in the sails and they billow out. Slowly, the ship leaves the Island of Xaan! You have escaped! You are free at last! )

Room 219: You board the vast sailing ship, followed by the Captain. The anchor is lifted, the wind catches in the sails and they billow out. Slowly, the ship leaves the Island of Xaan! You have escaped! You are free at last! 
Exits:
 east to 218 (You are on a wooden gangplank to the ship. A red-nosed Captain, with a false leg and a stuffed parrot nailed to his plywood shoulder, swigs a bottle of rum, and peers at you. )

Room 220: You are at a clearing in the forest. A waterfall cascades down the steep mountain wall, roaring with power! A rainbow arcs through the spray above. The waters disappear into a crevice, forming underground rivers and streams. 
Exits:
 north to 152 ("Hello there, strangThe tremendous power of the waterfall forces you to your knees and you collapse, breathlessly, to the floor! You glance northwards and make out the hazy shape of a cavern entrance beyond. Then everything goes black. )
 south to 102 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 east to 89 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 west to 88 (You are on a treeless path at the foot of a high mountain. Staring up, its steep walls seem to disappear into the cloudy sky. )
 southeast to 103 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
 southwest to 101 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )

Room 221: You are at the bottom of a winding staircase looking out onto a pebble beach. 
Exits:
 east to 222 (You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. )
 up to 130 (You are on a winding staircase, carved from the cavern rock. )

Room 222: You are on a pebble beach at the entrance to a system of caves. In the dim light of the interior, steps are visible, climbing up the inner rock walls. 
Exits:
 north to 138 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 east to 79 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )
 west to 221 (You are at the bottom of a winding staircase looking out onto a pebble beach. )
 northeast to 139 (You are on dry, sandy beach. In the distance to the north, the rough sea crashes to the shore. A little way south, the grey cliffs wall in the beach. )
 northwest to 83 (You are on a pebble beach at the foot of a steep cliff. A salty breeze blows in from the sea. )

Room 223: You are on a stony scree slope. The ground is firm and safe here, but further up the hill there are loose rocks and hidden pitfalls. Below you, the dark forest covers the valley. 
Exits:
Verb 0: 
 address &0000
Verb 1: attack
 address &17c4
Verb 2: break
 address &18f9
Verb 3: board
 address &1f37
Verb 4: close
 address &18b9
Verb 5: climb
 address &19ce
Verb 6: down
 address &1e74
Verb 7: drop
 address &1306
Verb 8: dig
 address &1a2c
Verb 9: drink
 address &1a81
Verb 10: east
 address &1e2b
Verb 11: eat
 address &1aaa
Verb 12: examine
 address &142e
Verb 13: fill
 address &14ca
Verb 14: get
 address &122f
Verb 15: go
 address &1341
Verb 16: help
 address &2257
Verb 17: inventory
 address &1200
Verb 18: jump
 address &1a09
Verb 19: knock
 address &1806
Verb 20: kill
 address &17c4
Verb 21: katros
 address &19ae
Verb 22: look
 address &1f78
Verb 23: lamp
 address &147c
Verb 24: north
 address &1e19
Verb 25: ne
 address &1e42
Verb 26: northeast
 address &1e42
Verb 27: nw
 address &1e4c
Verb 28: northwest
 address &1e4c
Verb 29: open
 address &1859
Verb 30: put
 address &1644
Verb 31: place
 address &1644
Verb 32: quit
 address &0c9b
Verb 33: restore
 address &1fe9
Verb 34: rub
 address &183c
Verb 35: south
 address &1e22
Verb 36: se
 address &1e56
Verb 37: southeast
 address &1e56
Verb 38: sw
 address &1e60
Verb 39: southwest
 address &1e60
Verb 40: sing
 address &17a6
Verb 41: search
 address &13a5
Verb 42: score
 address &218c
Verb 43: strangle
 address &17c4
Verb 44: save
 address &1fc4
Verb 45: take
 address &122f
Verb 46: throw
 address &1306
Verb 47: up
 address &1e6a
Verb 48: west
 address &1e35
Verb 49: wish
 address &183c
Verb 50: wait
 address &0c8a
Verb 51: wave
 address &183c
Verb 52: wear
 address &134c
Verb 53: sit
 address &0c96
Verb 54: lie
 address &0c96
Verb 55: pray
 address &19c9
Noun 2: alcove
 Starts in: 52 (You are in a small, dimly lit prison cell, filled with the stench of death and decay. The smooth, granite walls seem to close in on you, windowless and menacing! To the north looms a huge, iron door. )
Noun 3: beggar
 Starts in: 214 (You are in a beggar's hovel: a tiny wooden shack, with rotting floorboards and damp walls. A beggar sits in the corner, crosslegged, and humming tunelessly. )
Noun 4: blanket
 Starts in: 172 (You are in a large, dimly lit, walk-in linen cupboard. A grimy door occupies the north wall. )
Noun 5: bracelet
 Starts in: 234 (nowhere)
Noun 6: brooch
 Starts in: 255 (nowhere)
Noun 7: chain
 Starts in: 2 (alcove)
Noun 8: cloak
 Starts in: 53 (You are at a dead end in the corridor. The prison cells south of you give way to rough, brick walls, and the ceiling is so low, that you are forced to stoop. )
Noun 9: coin
 Starts in: 39 (well)
Noun 10: compass
 Starts in: 18 (guard)
Noun 11: diamond
 Starts in: 106 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
Noun 12: doll
 Starts in: 173 (You are in a small toy cupboard, dimly illuminated by the light which creeps in through gaps under the door to the north. )
Noun 13: dresser
 Starts in: 171 (You are in the master bedroom. It is spacious and well lit. An elegant four poster bed is positioned next to a door in the south wall. )
Noun 14: food
 Starts in: 34 (table)
Noun 15: glasses
 Starts in: 225 (nowhere)
Noun 16: gloves
 Starts in: 13 (dresser)
Noun 17: goblet
 Starts in: 236 (nowhere)
Noun 18: guard
 Starts in: 53 (You are at a dead end in the corridor. The prison cells south of you give way to rough, brick walls, and the ceiling is so low, that you are forced to stoop. )
Noun 19: hat
 Starts in: 118 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
Noun 20: ingot
 Starts in: 226 (nowhere)
Noun 21: lamp
 Starts in: 71 (You are on a narrow ledge south of the keep, high above the raging sea. The wind blows hard and forces you back against the keep wall, away from the debris thrown up by the wash as it crashes into the sheer cliff. )
Noun 22: leggings
 Starts in: 227 (nowhere)
Noun 23: locket
 Starts in: 201 (You are in a stinking ditch. The hard floor is covered with pools of stagnant liquid and stenching slime. The sickening smell lingers, disgustingly, in your nostrils. This isn't a good place to picnic! )
Noun 24: mittens
 Starts in: 255 (nowhere)
Noun 25: necklace
 Starts in: 182 (You are at the eastern edge of the plateau. High banks of earth stop any further progress. Far to the west you see a pulsing, blue light. )
Noun 26: oil
 Starts in: 223 (You are on a stony scree slope. The ground is firm and safe here, but further up the hill there are loose rocks and hidden pitfalls. Below you, the dark forest covers the valley. )
Noun 27: ring
 Starts in: 112 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
Noun 28: rug
 Starts in: 158 (You are in a well furnished sitting room, double glazed, with fashionable bamboo chairs and an electric fire with plastic coal. )
Noun 29: sacking
 Starts in: 1 (worn)
Noun 30: shoes
 Starts in: 110 (You are at a dead end in the cavern passages. You lamp casts strange, animated shadows on the uneven walls. )
Noun 31: shovel
 Starts in: 36 (toolshed)
Noun 32: soap
 Starts in: 174 (You are in a modern bathroom. The suite is an exclusive chocolate colour, sunk into the floor, with engraved taps, a thermal towel rail and some rather expensive Pseudo-Victorian soap dishes! )
Noun 33: socks
 Starts in: 105 (You are deep in the forest. Tall trees rear up all around, their branches intertwining to cut out all daylight. Your lamp casts a yellow halo over you, which scares the forest creatures and holds them at bay. )
Noun 34: table
 Starts in: 161 (You are in a spacious pantry with wood-panelled walls. A varnished, pine table is located in the centre of the room and occupies much of the floor area. )
Noun 35: teleprinter
 Starts in: 145 (You are on a vast, windswept plain, east of the forest boundary. Dust devils swirl and dart about the landscape, showering you with a fine, white powder. Frail trees, too small to climb, arc their bare limbs to the ground. )
Noun 36: toolshed
 Starts in: 131 (You are in a dimly lit graveyard. Swirling mists cloak the headstones, making them shimmer with an unnatural light. )
Noun 37: umbrella
 Starts in: 61 (You are on a hilltop north of the keep, looking down a dangerous scree slope to a dark forest beyond. )
Noun 38: water
 Starts in: 152 ("Hello there, strangThe tremendous power of the waterfall forces you to your knees and you collapse, breathlessly, to the floor! You glance northwards and make out the hazy shape of a cavern entrance beyond. Then everything goes black. )
Noun 39: well
 Starts in: 181 (You are at a small grotto, cut into the mountain. A blue, neon sign reading: "<Make Your Wish Here<", points to a small well, constructed of brick, with a brass plate set into the wall. )
Noun 40: door
 Starts in: 0 (inventory)
Noun 41: lullaby
 Starts in: 0 (inventory)
Noun 42: song
 Starts in: 0 (inventory)
Noun 43: ship
 Starts in: 0 (inventory)
Noun 44: tower
 Starts in: 31 (shovel)
Noun 45: tree
 Starts in: 117 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
Noun 46: cliff
 Starts in: 118 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
Noun 47: mountain
 Starts in: 119 (You are in a maze of narrow cavern passages, mindful of the rocky outcrops and pointed stalactites which hang dangerously from the ceiling. )
